=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

MooseX::Types::Path::Tiny - Path::Tiny types and coercions for Moose

=head1 VERSION

version 0.011

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  ### specification of type constraint with coercion

  package Foo;

  use Moose;
  use MooseX::Types::Path::Tiny qw/Path Paths AbsPath/;

  has filename => (
    is => 'ro',
    isa => Path,
    coerce => 1,
  );

  has directory => (
    is => 'ro',
    isa => AbsPath,
    coerce => 1,
  );

  has filenames => (
    is => 'ro',
    isa => Paths,
    coerce => 1,
  );

  ### usage in code

  Foo->new( filename => 'foo.txt' ); # coerced to Path::Tiny
  Foo->new( directory => '.' ); # coerced to path('.')->absolute
  Foo->new( filenames => [qw/bar.txt baz.txt/] ); # coerced to ArrayRef[Path::Tiny]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides L<Path::Tiny> types for L<Moose>.  It handles
two important types of coercion:

=over 4

=item *

coercing objects with overloaded stringification

=item *

coercing to absolute paths

=back

It also can check to ensure that files or directories exist.

=for stopwords coercions

=head1 SUBTYPES

=for stopwords SUBTYPES subtype subtypes

This module uses L<MooseX::Types> to define the following subtypes.

=for stopwords AbsPath AbsFile AbsDir

=head2 Path

C<Path> ensures an attribute is a L<Path::Tiny> object.  Strings and
objects with overloaded stringification may be coerced.

=head2 AbsPath

C<AbsPath> is a subtype of C<Path> (above), but coerces to an absolute path.

=head2 File, AbsFile

These are just like C<Path> and C<AbsPath>, except they check C<-f> to ensure
the file actually exists on the filesystem.

=head2 Dir, AbsDir

These are just like C<Path> and C<AbsPath>, except they check C<-d> to ensure
the directory actually exists on the filesystem.

=head2 Paths, AbsPaths

These are arrayrefs of C<Path> and C<AbsPath>, and include coercions from
arrayrefs of strings.

=head1 CAVEATS

=head2 Path vs File vs Dir

C<Path> just ensures you have a L<Path::Tiny> object.

C<File> and C<Dir> check the filesystem.  Don't use them unless that's really
what you want.

=head2 Usage with File::Temp

Be careful if you pass in a L<File::Temp> object. Because the argument is
stringified during coercion into a L<Path::Tiny> object, no reference to the
original L<File::Temp> argument is held.  Be sure to hold an external reference to
it to avoid immediate cleanup of the temporary file or directory at the end of
the enclosing scope.

A better approach is to use L<Path::Tiny>'s own C<tempfile> or C<tempdir>
constructors, which hold the reference for you.

    Foo->new( filename => Path::Tiny->tempfile );

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

=item *

L<Path::Tiny>

=item *

L<Moose::Manual::Types>

=item *

L<Types::Path::Tiny>

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

David Golden <dagolden@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2013 by David Golden.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The Apache License, Version 2.0, January 2004

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

=for stopwords Karen Etheridge Toby Inkster Demian Riccardi

=over 4

=item *

Karen Etheridge <ether@cpan.org>

=item *

Toby Inkster <mail@tobyinkster.co.uk>

=item *

Demian Riccardi <dde@ornl.gov>

=back

=cut
